---
layout: post
title:  "Water Distribution System in Ait Bayoud"
date:   2019-09-01 00:09:50 -0700
category: projects
preview: /assets/img/piping/DSC09066.JPG
---

## Project Summary

Our goal is to design and implement an 6 km pipeline in a terrain with a high rock sub-grade, to bring water to the two most remote and poorest villages in the Ait Bayoud region of Morocco. These two communities sustain themselves through subsistence farming, making water access essential to their health and livelihoods. The population positively impacted will be 370.

## Location

<div class="mapouter"><div class="gmap_canvas"><iframe width="600" height="400" id="gmap_canvas" src="https://maps.google.com/maps?q=31.3348657%2C-9.2975501&t=k&z=13&ie=UTF8&iwloc=&output=embed" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" marginheight="0" marginwidth="0"></iframe><a href="https://www.pureblack.de"></a></div><style>.mapouter{text-align:right;height:400px;width:700px;}.gmap_canvas {overflow:hidden;background:none!important;height:400px;width:700px;}</style></div>

## Technical Details

<embed src="/assets/files/drawingpackage.pdf" width="600px" height="500px" />

## Current Progress

In April 2018, we attended the HDPE Municipal Conference in Tulsa, Oklahoma. We got in touch with industry leaders, onboarded mentors, and learned how to properly fuse pipes using electrofusion and butt fusion.

Since April, we've wrote an extensive alternative analysis, designed the entire hydraulics of the hybird pumped and gravity fed pipeline, and secured 6 km PE4710 from US manufacturers. Additionally, we are now fully sponsored and funded. We are currently working on drafting implementation plans, and talking with the community through our past Peace Corps volunteer and a local NGO called the High Atlas Foundation. Implementation is slated for July 16th 2019.

## Affiliation

This project is carried out under the Engineers without Borders chapter of Columbia University. Our team is around 20 individuals. My contribution is in leading the technical aspect of this project.